---
id: app_model_instancing
title: Instance applications
---
Instancing applications can be done in several ways. Here are the supported ones by NetDaemon.

### Instancing an application using attribute
Instance any class with the simple attribute like below.
```csharp
[NetDaemonApp]
public class MyApp
{

}
```
If you need to some async initialization to be called after the app is instanced you can use the interface `IAsyncInitializable`.


```csharp
[NetDaemonApp]
public class MyAsyncInitializableApp : IAsyncInitializable
{
    // async 
    public Task InitializeAsync()
    {
        // do some async initialization here
    }
}
```

### Instancing an application using yaml
You can use yaml configuration file to provide configuration that are injected into the constructor using the `IAppConfig<>` interface.

Best way to explain is to provide a yaml config with app class below:

```yaml
LightConfig: # This is  the fully qualified name of the config class
    TheLight: light.kitchenlightwindow # this is example of custom configuration
```

```c#
public class LightConfig
{
    // This property will be automapped with ´the_light´ config
    // Using autogenerated entity classes in HassModel
    public LightEntity? TheLight { get; set; }
}

public class LightManager
{
    /// <summary>
    ///     Initialize, is automatically run by the daemon
    /// </summary>
    public LightManager(IAppConfig<LightConfig> config)
    {
        // Turn on the light when loading
        config.Value.TheLight?.TurnOn();
    }
} 
```

### Logging
NetDaemon can inject a logger into your application instance when you specify a _scoped_ `ILogger` parameter in your application's constructor.

For example, if your application is called `FrontDoorLocker` then specifying a parameter of type `ILogger<FrontDoorLocker>` into the app's constructor  will ensure that an appropriate logger is injected. 
In this example, the `FrontDoorLocker` constructor stores the logger into a class field so that it can be used by subsequent methods:
```csharp

private readonly ILogger<FrontDoorLocker> _logger;

public FrontDoorLocker(IHaContext ha, ILogger<FrontDoorLocker> logger)
{
    _ha = ha;
    _logger = logger;

    _logger.LogInformation($"{nameof(FrontDoorLocker)} started");
    // ... //
}
```

#### Log levels in brief

The logging subsystem ([serilog](https://serilog.net/)) defines several levels of log events. From low to high these are `Verbose`, `Debug`, `Information`, `Warning`, `Error` and `Fatal`. You can set the minimum level that you wish to log which means that only events at that level or higher will be logged.

By default, NetDaemon defaults to `Debug` level and higher, but you can override this in `appSettings.json`:

```json
{
    "Logging": {
        "MinimumLevel": "Debug"
    },
    ...
}
```

Within your application you will use one of the `_logger` methods to write a message at the desired level. Note that `ILogger` is a Microsoft-defined interface and there is (oddly!) not an exact match of `ILogger` methods to Serilog levels.

```csharp
  // See code sample above for setting up the logger in your constructor

  _logger.LogTrace("This is at Verbose level");
  _logger.LogDebug("This is at Debug level");
  _logger.LogInformation("This is at Information level");
  _logger.LogWarning("This is at Warning level");
  _logger.LogError("This is at Error level");
  _logger.LogCritical("This is at Fatal level");
  
```

#### Viewing log messages
Within the development environment you can view log messages inside the console view (or the container console view if you're debugging in containers).

When your application is deployed to your Home Assistant production environment then you can view the logs by clicking on:

 * Configuration
 * Add-ons, Backups and Supervisor
 * NetDaemon
 * Log

Note that the logs are cleared each time you restart the NetDaemon add-on (or the Home Assistant server).

#### More advanced logging
One of the goals of the NetDaemon template app is that it should work out of the box with minimal configuration. For that reason, the template ships with a "Default NetDaemon Logging Configurator", which supports all of the functionality described on this page, but nothing more.

If you are familiar with Serilog or other .Net loggers and want to use more advanced techniques such as writing to log files or to remote log servers then please read the [Custom logging](v2/app_model/custom_logging.md) page, which shows how to create and configure a custom logger.



